Roadmap 2024 (#433)
astropy/astropy-project: roadmap/roadmap.md

## Functionality

The core product of the Project is high quality Astronomical software, including both the common core package and affiliated packages. This category encompasses goals having to do with this core Project functionality.

- :green_circle: Provide next-generation spectroscopic analysis tools usable by individual researchers and larger surveys.

- :green_circle: Add quantity support for non-NumPy arrays.

- :large_orange_diamond: Provide next-generation spectroscopic reduction tools usable by individual researchers and larger surveys.

## Infrastructure, Documentation

Underlying all Astropy packages is critial infrastucture that ensures high quality, well-documented software is released. This category emcompasses goals having to do with this infrastructure and documentation.

> - :green_circle: Implement robust performance benchmark reporting.

Author: I think that is too specific.

- :green_circle: Revive dashboards for developers (CI status etc) and community (PR trends etc).

> - :large_orange_diamond: Improve documentation for infrastructure setup, as well as the developer documentation.

Reviewer: Actually, @taldcroft already improved developer docs in https://github.com/astropy/astropy/pull/16561 . Does that mean we can take developer docs off this roadmap? Or change status for that one?

Author: Let's change to green and leave on.

> - :large_orange_diamond: Revive dashboards for developers (CI status etc) and community (PR trends etc).

Reviewer 2: I'm working now on a community dashboard, so that could be green.

## Interoperability and compatibility

One of the core principles of the Astropy Project is to "foster an ecosystem of interoperable astronomy packages." This category encompasses goals related to that principle of interoperability and compatibility.

> - :green_circle: Improve support and validation for input/output of standard file formats used in Astronomy by improving the unified I/O system: allowing user added classes/formats, and implementing GWCS.

Reviewer: Clarify acronym. We don't have to capitalize "astronomy," do we?
```suggestion
- :green_circle: Improve support and validation for input/output (I/O) of standard file formats used in astronomy by improving the unified I/O system: allowing user added classes/formats, and implementing GWCS.
```

Author: I probably originally wrote Astropy and didn't change the capitalization when I changed the wording.

> - :red_square: Unify unit packages.

Reviewer: Would listing them out be too specific?
```suggestion
- :red_square: Unify unit packages (e.g., `astropy.units`, `pint`, `unyt`).
```

    

## Hardware and Performance

> Astronomers perform their work in a variety of computing environments with a variety of requirements. This category encompasses goals related to supporting the performance and hardware needs of Astropy Project users, as well as  anticipating future needs and requirements.

Reviewer: Exorcise extra whitespace.
```suggestion
Astronomers perform their work in a variety of computing environments with a variety of requirements. This category encompasses goals related to supporting the performance and hardware needs of Astropy Project users, as well as anticipating future needs and requirements.
```

- :large_orange_diamond: Improve and/or maintain interoperability with performant I/O file formats and libraries such as HDF5 and Dask.

- :red_square: Improve support for using Astropy tools in heterogeneous computing environments such as cloud environments or GPU systems.

> - :red_square: Add basic pyscript/webassembly support in Astropy.

Reviewer: JS people love their CamelCase.
```suggestion
- :red_square: Add basic PyScript/WebAssembly support in Astropy.
```

## Learn and User Support

> The Astropy Project cannot succeed in its core objectives without a robust user onboarding and support system.  This category is for items related to the Astropy Learn ecosystem and other user support related improvements.

Reviewer: Can you tell that double whitespace bothers me? 😆 
```suggestion
The Astropy Project cannot succeed in its core objectives without a robust user onboarding and support system. This category is for items related to the Astropy Learn ecosystem and other user support related improvements.
```

Author: Can you tell I don't even see it. 😉

- :green_circle: Generate and ingest guides and/or a series of tutorials that demonstrate Astropy Project functionality in the context of astronomical research.

-  :large_orange_diamond: Update Astropy website to improve the visibility of Astropy Learn and overall reflect the Project as a whole, not just the core package.

- :large_orange_diamond: Develop tutorials that demonstrate the use of Astropy for spectroscopy tasks.

- :red_square: Expand and build on workshop offerings, including online and increased geographic coverage.

> - :red_square: Develop/harvest tutorials suitable for use in university astronomy courses.

Reviewer: Do we want it more vague to include non-traditional tertiary education that we are not aware of?
```suggestion
- :red_square: Develop/harvest tutorials suitable for use in post-secondary academic settings.
```

Author: I don't think so. I don't want to over-promise and this is not saying that these tutorials are *only* for university courses, just that we are building a collection that is *suitable* for university courses, and if they are suitable for other courses too, great.

## Community Building and Sustainability

> As a commnunity driven project the long term health and development of the Astropy community is an intrinsic part of the Project. This category encompasses goals related to growing and maintining that community, and ensuring it adheres to the core principles of inclusion and consensus-building.

Reviewer: Minor word change suggestions. Also typos.
```suggestion
As a community-driven project, the long term health and development of the Astropy community is an intrinsic part of the Project. This category encompasses goals related to growing and maintaining that community, and ensuring that it adheres to the core principles of inclusion and consensus-building.
```

> As a commnunity-driven project, the long term health and development of the Astropy community is an intrinsic part of the Project. This category encompasses goals related to growing and maintaining that community, and ensuring that it adheres to the core principles of inclusion and consensus-building.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a community-driven project, the long term health and development of the Astropy community is an intrinsic part of the Project. This category encompasses goals related to growing and maintaining that community, and ensuring that it adheres to the core principles of inclusion and consensus-building.
```

> - :green_circle: Better understand Astropy user community through a NumPy-like user survey (see [this summary](https://numpy.org/user-survey-2020-details/) of their results).

Reviewer: Is this referring to the Mycology reports we discussed? Should we link them here?

> - :large_orange_diamond: Increase the learning and mentoring opportunities for people interested in becoming contributors and helping to develop existing contributors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :large_orange_diamond: Increase the learning and mentoring opportunities for people interested in becoming contributors and helping to develop existing contributors into maintainers.
```

- :red_square: Increase inclusion, diversity, and empowerment efforts within the Astropy Project and NumFOCUS communities, and improve our understanding of the demographics of our communities in order to measure the effectiveness of these efforts.

## Government, Management, and Personnel

> This category encompasses goals related to governing and managing the people of the Astropy Project to facilitate reaching the goals described elsewhere in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This category encompasses goals related to governing and managing the teams of the Astropy Project to facilitate reaching the goals described elsewhere in this document.
```

- :green_circle: Develop a process for recruiting, selecting, and managing personnel to complete Project priorities that require external labor.

- :large_orange_diamond: Adopt the NumFOCUS Code of Conduct (CoC) and build a community ombuds/CoC team to curate the guidelines and enforce them.

> - :large_orange_diamond: Document the process for taking on a formal role in the Astropy project and recruit for unfilled Team positions.

Reviewer: No need to capitalize "team?"
```suggestion
- :large_orange_diamond: Document the process for taking on a formal role in the Astropy project and recruit for unfilled team positions.
```

> - :large_orange_diamond: Implement a strategic planning role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :large_orange_diamond: Define and staff the strategic planning role.
```
